![blogpic](pics/2024-05-01.jpg)
# Feminization is not bad
## October 18, 2025

It doesn’t look like it’s women which has caused toxic cancel culture.

### What is causing toxic cancel culture?

Where there is a tremendous [correlation between toxic cancel culture
and the feminization of universities and other places in 
society](https://archive.today/20251017214032/https://www.compactmag.com/article/the-great-feminization/), 
correlation is not necessarily causation. The toxic cancel culture we
are seeing could be caused by other factors, such as people interacting
online more and in person less: I have observed that getting behind a
screen makes people ruder and less pleasant.

Toxic cancel culture is one response to what I call the “troll bait”
issue: Certain ideas, which are unpopular with mainstream society,
get a certain loud minority all worked up. For example, [Super Audio
CDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Audio_CD) had a small but
fanatic userbase who were convinced conventional CDs sounded harsh and
digital, but didn’t have any real scientific evidence to [back up their
assertions](https://archive.today/20241216144928/https://people.xiph.org/~xiphmont/demo/neil-young.html).

The correct response to bad troll bait ideas is not to shame people for
having opinions we don’t like, but to present more facts showing that
they are wrong.  This is how we kept the SACD article under control,
since the evidence shows that people can not distinguish CD quality
audio from a wire.

### What about the 2011 “Dear Colleague” letter

One issue the [linked
article](https://archive.today/20251017214032/https://www.compactmag.com/article/the-great-feminization/)
brings up is the [2011 Dear Colleague
letter](https://archive.today/20251018161414/https://www.ed.gov/sites/ed/files/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-201104.pdf).

To summarize, in 2011 Joe Biden wrote a letter telling universities that
they [need to take away due process rights for men accused of 
rape](blog:2014-07-31). To wit, this letter which is considered an
example of “feminization” *was written by a man*.

My boots on the ground experience is that shaming behavior is something
*both* men and women do, and, if anything, women will be more forgiving,
understanding, and empathetic when someone has done something socially 
unacceptable than a man would be.
